{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red22\green82\blue202;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16560\viewh13240\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt\clvertalbase \clshdrawnil \clwWidth11280\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Title: Learning, Designing, Implementation and Comparison\'a0 of Machine\'a0 \
Learning\'a0 Algorithms for Classification and Clustering of\
\'a0 Handwritten Digits.\
\
Steps of the project:\
\
\'a0 1) Please download these three papers (or similar papers) and read\'a0 \
them carefully. (a copy of these papers also will be posted on the\'a0 \
course web page)\
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 A) Paper#1: Javad Sadri, Mohammad Reza Yeganehzad, Javad\'a0 \
Saghi, "A Novel Comprehensive Database for Offline Persian Handwriting\'a0 \
Recognition", Published in the Journal of "Pattern Recognition\'a0 \
(Elsevier)", Volume 60, Pages 378-393, December 2016. Currently\'a0 \
available on-line at:\'a0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320316300097,"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320316300097, }}\
December 2016. Link for Downloading the\'a0 Database:\
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://users.encs.concordia.ca/~j_sadri/PersianDatabase.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://users.encs.concordia.ca/~j_sadri/PersianDatabase.htm}}\
\
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 B) Paper#2: Javad Sadri, C. Y. Suen, T. D. Bui, "Application\'a0 \
of Support Vector Machines for Recognition of Handwritten\'a0 \
Arabic/Persian Digits", Published in the Proceedings of the Second\'a0 \
Conference on Machine Vision and Image Processing & Applications (MVIP\'a0 \
2003), Vol. 1, pp. 300-307, Tehran, Iran, Feb. 2003.\
\
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 C) Paper#3: Javad Sadri, C. Y. Suen, T. D. Bui, "A New\'a0 \
Clustering Method for Improving Plasticity and Stability in\'a0 \
Handwritten Character Recognition Systems", Published in the\'a0 \
Proceedings of the International Conference on Pattern Recognition\'a0 \
(ICPR 2006), pp. 1130-1133, Hong Kong , August 2006.\
\
2) Download the sample database (digit part) from\
\'a0 the following links:\'a0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://users.encs.concordia.ca/~j_sadri/PersianDatabase.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://users.encs.concordia.ca/~j_sadri/PersianDatabase.htm}}\
\'a0 \'a0 More data and more samples of handwritten digits based on paper#1\'a0 \
will be given to you\'a0 in next few weeks.\
\
3) Develop Different Methods for feature extraction for digits digits\'a0 \
according to the methods explained in Paper#1 and #2 or other similar\'a0 \
methods in the literature.\
\
4) Develop Different methods for classification of digits. At least 4\'a0 \
different\'a0 classification methods for digits should be implemented,\'a0 \
compared\'a0 and tested.\
\
5)\'a0 Develop\'a0 Different methods for classifier evaluations and\'a0 \
comparison of your classifiers, show some of your correct\'a0 \
classifications,\
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 and misclassification cases. Show and interpreting the results\'a0 \
of your classification visually and explain them.\
\
6) Develop\'a0 Different methods or approaches\'a0 for clustering of\'a0 \
digits's shapes.\'a0 (at least 3 different\'a0 methods of clustering\'a0 of\'a0 \
digits\
in each group should be implemented and tested).\'a0 For example\'a0 \
different shapes and styles of writing digit 5 should be clustered and\
presented visually. (for more info. look at Paper #3, and other\'a0 \
similar papers). You should use three different algorithm\'a0 for\'a0 \
clustering or use three different types of features or 3 different types\
of distance functions/or\'a0 similarity measure for your clustering, and\'a0 \
you should compare\'a0 results of your clustering visually similar to\'a0 \
Paper#3.\
\
7) More information and details about this projects will be given in\'a0 \
the class. These projects can be implemented in team of 1,2, 3, 4, or\'a0 \
5 students.\
\'a0 \'a0 the due date for the submission of a full report and source codes\'a0 \
will be on April 9, 2017. Projects should be presented during the same\'a0 \
\'a0 week starting\
\'a0 \'a0 (between April 10 to April 17, 2017).\
\
Important note: If you wish, You can choose, database of handwritten\'a0 \
digits of any script in the world for this project.\
\'a0 \'a0 I will be happy to meet you in my office hours, or in our class to\'a0 \
talk about more details of this project or to answer your all questions.\cell \lastrow\row
}